We got more rockets would you want to add a patch road that allows us to update the place by the end
a delete route that helps us delete a place.
So let's work on those now.
Of course as always feel free to try it on your own first.
There are some things summit h he works at least involved which we haven't used before but in general
you should have everything you need to make this work as well.
So definitely try this on your own first.
Here's a quick pause which you have to pause to video and try it there after will implement this together.
So very successful.
Let's implement this together now.
For that let's go to places roots and register two new roots one for the patch age.
The new method for Slash some place I.D. And by the way this does not clash with this root because this
only is interested in getting requests.
D is only interested in Patch requests so the order does not matter and the fact that they have the
same path does also not matter.
We would have a clash if we had a number get root with the same path here.
This would never be reached but since we have a different method this is no problem.
And then we want to point at some controller function before we add that.
However let me also already register a delete route also for a slash.
Some ideas.
Now in the places controller we can add two new functions update place by I.D. could be one function
where we get our response our request our response and the next function and then delete place and I'll
actually get rid of that by I.D. thing because we have no other way of deleting or updating anyways
so these are my two middleware functions.
Now we need to export them here so export update place and point at the update place function and export
delete place and point at the delete place function.
And now in places routes we can use instead Laci's controller update plays and places controller delete
place.
So we're done in the routing file.
Now we have to work in the controller file now for updating.
There are a couple of things we got to do.
For one it's important to know that for a patch request you also have a request body.
And that's important because since if you want to update certain fields the data for those fields of
course needs to be attached to the request.
So I will copy that extraction here from create place and add it to update place.
However here I only want to allow updating the title and description so I'll only extract that other
data can be sent but will not be considered.
We also need the idea of the place which should be updated and that is encoded into you are ELA.
So here we have a mixture of some data being part of the U.R.L. L and some data being part of the request
body and you typically encode the identifying criteria so the idea in this case into d you are L and
the data with which you then work into the request body.
So now to get that place idea we get it from request parents pit or whatever you'd show us as a segment
here.
Of course if you choose PID here you have to use PID here if you chose a different name in the roots
setup you have to extract your data by that name.
Here so now with that we can search for the place in our dummy places array with the find method and
find the place where the idea is equal to place idea.
And here I'm using the shorter form of that arrow function where if we only have one expression and
we want to return the value of that expression we can't admit to curly braces and the return statement.
And this will then automatically be returned.
So this is the shortest possible form of writing this so here I am identifying a place and now we can
update it.
Now I actually want to update it in a immutable way which means I don't want to start working on the
properties of the place like this because that would immediately change it here in disarray because
objects are reference values in JavaScript in case that doesn't tell you anything attached you find
an extra resource on reference.
Whereas as primitive values in JavaScript now it wouldn't be horrible if we directly added this but
it's all is not a great practice because of saving our data or saving parts of our data would fail thereafter
which is contrary here.
But if we would also store a file or something like that then some data might have changed already.
Whilst our data failed so I actually want to create a copy of that place changed ad copy and only once
that copy is finished.
I want to change and higher place in my array of places with that updated copy.
So they offer to create a copy I'll use the spread operator here and wrap this in curly braces.
This creates a new object and copies all key value pairs of the old object as key value pairs into the
new object.
Then I'm interested in the plays index in the array.
We can get this with dummy places find index.
Same logic as before but this returns us the index of the place instead of the place itself.
And then I want to update my updated place object here.
Set the title to the title I got here and the request body and all those set the description to the
description I got in the request body.
Now you might be wondering why I'm able to change a constant here.
Well again check that attached resource on primitive and reference values and it will become clear basically
the constant stores the address of the object and not the object itself.
So now we got the updated place we got the index of the place.
Now I can set dummy places for the identified index equal to the updated place so I replaced the old
object at that index with the new updated place and then we can send the response status code to 100
not 201 one because we didn't create anything new and there we could add a message if we wanted to.
But here I just want to add the place I want to return the updated place to be precise and this should
be a valid updating middleware.
Let's test it.
Let's save this and go to postmen and there of course we have our places p one place right if we sent
that request.
That gives us the Empire State Building which is never lost when we restart the server because it's
hardcoded in our code up there.
Now let's change something about that place by creating a new request patch request where we target
local host five thousand slash API slash places slash p 1.
That's the idea of the place we want to add it and then on body choose raw juice.
Jason and in their set a titled property because we are expecting title and a description property and
then a value of your choice.
Empire State of Mind and description pretty great song.
Now if you hit send.
Let's see if that works.
Looks pretty good.
I got my updated place back I got a 200 status code and if I now try to find that place here with my
get request I always see the changes reflect that there.
So I successfully changed is now just as with creating data whenever we restart the server.
This will be lost but for the moment this is great.
Now let's all to make sure we can delete a place.